- [Instructor] So we've made the page changes
that we needed to make.
So let's put the wiring in place
so we can actually run our forms-based authentication.
So remember in the previous video
that we created a login page,
but right now we don't have a controller for that.
So let's go to our HomeController
and let's remove the RequestMapping on line nine,
and let's add a GetMapping to /
on the existing, getHome method.
And now let's add a GetMapping to /login.
So public String getLogin.
We don't need a model for that.
And we will return Login.
Pretty straightforward.
Now, let's go enable the configuration that we will need
in order to make forms-based authentication a reality.
So in our WebSecureConfig, in the config package,
let's take a look at what we have.
So we've got some antMatchers here,
and then we get into basic auth.
We don't need basic auth anymore.
We are now going to use formLogin.
And to the formLogin
we're going to tell it where the login page is
and the login page is at /login.
And then we are going to give it a failureUrl
and the failureUrl that we are going to give it
is /login?error.
And from here, we will permitAll.
And then we're going to do another and.
And now we're going to specify our logout process.
So logout, we want to clearAuthentication.
And we want to set that equal to true.
And we want to invalidate any HTTP sessions that we have.
And on a logoutSuccessUrl,
we want to go to /login?logout.
And then we'll do a .permitAll
Now, real quick, let's look at these parameters
and why they're important.
If you remember back in the previous video
when we created at our login page,
we set a param of error.
If that is set,
then we want to present the alert danger box
that says invalid username and password.
And if the param logout is set,
we want to say that we've been logged out.
So that way we will return to the login page
with appropriate messaging
based on our login and logout flow.
And that's really all there is to converting our application
from basic auth to login.
In the next video
we're going to go through and test some of these scenarios
and run the system to see the fully functioning flow.